README.md, before:

# Shop AI Search

A high-performance shop search service utilizing vector embeddings for semantic search across merchants and locations.

### Technologies
- **Kotlin & Spring Boot (WebFlux)**: Reactive backend architecture.
- **jOOQ**: Type-safe SQL querying for H2 and ClickHouse.
- **ClickHouse**: Used as a vector database for fast nearest neighbor search using `cosineDistance`.
- **H2 (MySQL Mode)**: Primary database for relational data (Merchants, Categories, Shops).
- **Flyway**: Database migration management.
- **HuggingFace / Ollama**: Integration for generating text embeddings.

### Key Features
- **Semantic Search**: Search for shops not just by name, but by description and category using AI embeddings.
- **Geospatial Filtering**: Combines vector search with geographic distance calculations (`greatCircleDistance`).
- **Automated Indexing**: `DataInitializer` synchronizes relational data from H2 to ClickHouse, generating embeddings on the fly.

### Project Structure
- `com.example.aisearch.service`: Core business logic for search and embedding generation.
- `com.example.aisearch.repository`: Data access layers for H2 (relational) and ClickHouse (vector).
- `com.example.aisearch.index`: Components for data synchronization and indexing.
- `src/main/resources/db/migration`: SQL schema and initial seed data (London-based).

### Sequence Diagrams

#### Data Indexing (Synchronization)
This process occurs on application startup (via `DataInitializer`), synchronizing relational data from H2 to the ClickHouse vector index.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant DI as DataInitializer
    participant H2 as H2 Database
    participant AI as AI Embedding Service
    participant CH as ClickHouse (Vector DB)

    DI->>CH: Drop & Recreate shop_search_index
    DI->>H2: Fetch shops with merchant & category info
    H2-->>DI: List of shop records
    loop For each shop record
        DI->>AI: Generate embedding (combined description)
        AI-->>DI: Vector (FloatArray)
        DI->>CH: Insert shop data + vector
    end
```

#### Shop Search Process
How a user search query is processed from the API to the final enriched result.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor User
    participant API as ShopController
    participant SVC as ShopSearchService
    participant AI as AI Embedding Service
    participant CH as ClickHouse (Vector DB)
    participant H2 as H2 Database

    User->>API: GET /shops/search?query=...
    API->>SVC: searchNearestShops(query, lat, lon, radius)
    SVC->>AI: getVector(query text)
    AI-->>SVC: query vector
    SVC->>CH: searchNearest(vector, location, radius)
    CH-->>SVC: List of ShopResultDto (IDs, distances, scores)
    SVC->>H2: findByIds(merchantIds)
    H2-->>SVC: Merchant details
    SVC-->>API: List of ShopSearchResponse (enriched)
    API-->>User: JSON Result
```

### Getting Started
1. Configure your ClickHouse and Embedding Service (HuggingFace/Ollama) connection in `src/main/resources/application.yml`.
2. Run the application: `./gradlew bootRun`.
3. The `DataInitializer` will automatically populate the ClickHouse index on startup.

### API Endpoints
- `GET /shops/search`: Search for nearest shops using a text query and location coordinates.

Commit message:

Replace jOOQ with Spring JDBC templates for database operations.

README.md, after:

# Shop AI Search

A high-performance shop search service utilizing vector embeddings for semantic search across merchants and locations.

### Technologies
- **Kotlin & Spring Boot (WebFlux)**: Reactive backend architecture.
- **Spring JDBC (NamedParameterJdbcTemplate)**: Efficient and flexible SQL querying for H2 and ClickHouse.
- **ClickHouse**: Used as a vector database for fast nearest neighbor search using `cosineDistance`.
- **H2 (MySQL Mode)**: Primary database for relational data (Merchants, Categories, Shops).
- **Flyway**: Database migration management.
- **HuggingFace / Ollama**: Integration for generating text embeddings.

### Key Features
- **Semantic Search**: Search for shops not just by name, but by description and category using AI embeddings.
- **Geospatial Filtering**: Combines vector search with geographic distance calculations (`greatCircleDistance`).
- **Automated Indexing**: `DataInitializer` synchronizes relational data from H2 to ClickHouse, generating embeddings on the fly.

### Project Structure
- `com.example.aisearch.service`: Core business logic for search and embedding generation.
- `com.example.aisearch.repository`: Data access layers for H2 (relational) and ClickHouse (vector).
- `com.example.aisearch.index`: Components for data synchronization and indexing.
- `src/main/resources/db/migration`: SQL schema and initial seed data (London-based).

### Sequence Diagrams

#### Data Indexing (Synchronization)
This process occurs on application startup (via `DataInitializer`), synchronizing relational data from H2 to the ClickHouse vector index.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    participant DI as DataInitializer
    participant H2 as H2 Database
    participant AI as AI Embedding Service
    participant CH as ClickHouse (Vector DB)

    DI->>CH: Drop & Recreate shop_search_index
    DI->>H2: Fetch shops with merchant & category info
    H2-->>DI: List of shop records
    loop For each shop record
        DI->>AI: Generate embedding (combined description)
        AI-->>DI: Vector (FloatArray)
        DI->>CH: Insert shop data + vector
    end
```

#### Shop Search Process
How a user search query is processed from the API to the final enriched result.

```mermaid
sequenceDiagram
    actor User
    participant API as ShopController
    participant SVC as ShopSearchService
    participant AI as AI Embedding Service
    participant CH as ClickHouse (Vector DB)
    participant H2 as H2 Database

    User->>API: GET /shops/search?query=...
    API->>SVC: searchNearestShops(query, lat, lon, radius)
    SVC->>AI: getVector(query text)
    AI-->>SVC: query vector
    SVC->>CH: searchNearest(vector, location, radius)
    CH-->>SVC: List of ShopResultDto (IDs, distances, scores)
    SVC->>H2: findByIds(merchantIds)
    H2-->>SVC: Merchant details
    SVC-->>API: List of ShopSearchResponse (enriched)
    API-->>User: JSON Result
```

### Getting Started
1. Configure your ClickHouse and Embedding Service (HuggingFace/Ollama) connection in `src/main/resources/application.yml`.
2. Run the application: `./gradlew bootRun`.
3. The `DataInitializer` will automatically populate the ClickHouse index on startup.

### API Endpoints
- `GET /shops/search`: Search for nearest shops using a text query and location coordinates.
